opl: added quickstart & monitoring link (#477)
oasisprotocol/docs: docs/dapp/opl/README.md

popular EVM networks like Ethereum, BNB Chain, and Polygon with encrypted
transactions and confidential state.

> By using [a Solidity library](https://github.com/oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime/tree/main/contracts/contracts/opl)

Reviewer: Should we use the link to @oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts npmjs.com package instead here?

that integrates [Sapphire](https://oasisprotocol.org/sapphire) into your
existing and future Web3 applications, developers on any supported network can
seamlessly add confidential state and selective disclosures to their dApps when
using contract a deployed on Sapphire without leaving their existing networks.

For more information about OPL and to catch the latest news, please visit the
[official OPL page](https://oasisprotocol.org/opl).

![Oasis Privacy Layer diagram](../images/opl/privacy-layer-diagram.png)

The user submits a transaction on the Home network to a contract which uses

> `postMessage` to notify the <abbr title="State Guardian Network">SGN</abbr>

Reviewer: A more common style from the rest of the docs is this:

```suggestion
`postMessage` to notify the *State Guardian Network* (SGN)
```

that it should approve the cross-chain message. The Executor waits, when the SGN
approves the message the Executor submits a transaction to the target contract
on Sapphire.

> ```mermaid

Reviewer: Diagram source (named `opl-contract-flow.mmd`?) should go here:
https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/tree/main/docs/dapp/diagrams

Then, run `yarn diagrams` and Oasis-styled `opl-contract.mmd.svg` should appear in the diagrams folder which you then include as a regular image.

Author: I've just removed the diagram as `yarn diagrams` requires headless chrome which is a pain to run inside docker with my current config.

sequenceDiagram
    User ->> Home Contract: Transaction
    Home Contract -->> SGN: SGN Watches Events
    SGN -->> Executor: Waits for SGN Approval
    Executor ->> Sapphire Contract: Submit Proof Tx
```

The Home Contract pays the SGN to watch and approve the message, but the
Executor needs to be run by somebody willing to pay for the gas to submit
transactions to the destination chain.

## Quickstart

A of pair contracts are linked bidirectionally 1-1 to each other across chains,

> with one end on Sapphire and the other on a supported EVM compatible chain (the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with one end on Sapphire and the other on a supported EVM-compatible chain (the
```

Home Network). They can post and receive messages to & from each other using the
message-passing bridge, but must register endpoints to define which messages
they handle from each other.

> Start by adding the [`@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts`](http://npmjs.com/package/@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts) NPM package to your Hardhat or Truffle project so you can import `OPL.sol`:

Reviewer: Reference `@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts` link below to avoid long lines here.

```
[`@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts`]: http://npmjs.com/package/@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts
```

>     pnpm add @oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
pnpm add @oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts
```
```

        registerEndpoint("secretExample", on_example);
    }
    function on_example(bytes calldata _args) internal returns (Result) {
        (uint256 a, bool b) = abi.decode(args, (uint256, bool));
        // TODO: do confidential things here
        return Result.Success;
    }
}
```

Then on the other chain, define your contract which can be called via
`triggerExample` to send a message to the contract on Sapphire using the
`postMessage` interface.

```solidity
import {Host, Result} from "@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts/contracts/OPL.sol";

contract HomeContract is Host {
    constructor(address otherEnd) Host(otherEnd) {
    }
    function triggerExample (uint256 a, bool b) external payable {
        postMessage("secretExample", abi.encode(a, b));
    }
}
```

After a few minutes the bridge will detect and then execute the `SapphireContract.on_example` method.

## Monitoring

The Celer IM Scan API can be used to retrieve status and message details by
providing the globally unique transaction ID from the chain which originated the
message.

    https://api.celerscan.com/scan/searchByTxHash?tx=0x...

> For details of the response format, see the [Query IM Tx Status](https://im-docs.celer.network/developer/development-guide/query-im-tx-status) page of the Celer Inter-Chain Message (IM) documentation. Using this API lets you to check if messages have been delivered.

Reviewer: Define the link at the end of the chapter.

## Mainnet Deployment

> It is necessary to run a [Message Executor](https://im-docs.celer.network/developer/development-guide/message-executor)

Reviewer: Define the link at the end of the chapter.

> which monitors the Celer <abbr title="State Guardian Network">SGN</abbr> for

Reviewer: No need to redefine SGN since it's already defined above.

```suggestion
which monitors the Celer SGN for
```

cross-chain messages and then submits the proof on-chain to deliver them to the
target contract.

If you are participating in a Hackathon or Grant, [please fill out the relay
request form](https://form.typeform.com/to/RsiUR9Xz) to be allowed to use the
shared Message Executor.

## Supported Networks

### Mainnets

| Name | Int ID | Hex ID | autoswitch name |

> | - | - | - | - |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|------|--------|--------|-----------------|
```

| Ape | 16350 | 0x3fde | ape |
| Arbitrum Nova | 42170 | 0xa4ba | arbitrum-nova |
| Arbitrum One | 42161 | a4b1 | arbitrum-one |
| Astar | 592 | 0x250 | astar |
| Aurora | 1313161554 | 0x4e454152 | aurora |
| Avalanche | 43114 | 0xa86a | avalanche |
| Binance Smart Chain | 56 | 0x38 | bsc |
| Ethereum | 1 | 0x1 | ethereum |
| Fantom | 250 | 0xfa | fantom |
| Filecoin | 314 | 0x13a | filecoin |
| Milkomeda C1 | 2001 | 0x7d1 | milkomeda |
| Moonriver | 1285 | 0x505 | moonriver |
| Polygon | 137 | 0x89 | polygon |
| Sapphire | 23294 | 0x5afe | sapphire |
| Syscoin | 57 | 0x39 | syscoin |
| Polygon zkEVM | 1101 | 0x44d | polygon-zkevm |
| Optimism | 10 | 0xa | optimism |
| zkSync Era | 324 | 0x144 | zksync-era |

### Testnets

| Name | Int ID | Hex ID | autoswitch name |

> | - | - | - | - |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|------|--------|--------|-----------------|
```

| Arbitrum Testnet | 421611 | 0x66eeb | arbitrum-testnet |
| Avalanche C-Chain Fuji Testnet | 43113 | 0xa869 | avalanche-fuji |
| BSC Testnet | 97 | 0x61 | bsc-testnet |
| ConsenSys zkEVM Testnet | 59140 | 0xe704 | zkevm-testnet |
| Dexalot Testnet | 432201 | 0x69849 | dexalot-testnet |
| Fantom Testnet | 4002 | 0xfa2 | fantom-testnet |
| Filecoin Hyperspace Testnet | 3141 | 0xc45 | filecoin-testnet |
| FNCY Testnet | 923018 | 0xe158a | fncy-testnet |
| Godwoken Testnet | 71401 | 0x116e9 | godwoken-testnet |
| Goerli Testnet | 5 | 0x5 | goerli |
| Polygon Mumbai Testnet | 80001 | 0x13881 | polygon-mumbai |
| Polygon zkEVM Testnet | 1442 | 0x5a2 | zkevm-testnet |
| Sapphire Testnet | 23295 | 0x5aff | sapphire-testnet |
| Scroll Alpha Testnet | 534353 | 0x82751 | scroll-testnet |

> | Shibuya Testnet | 81 | 0x51 | shibuya-testnet |

Reviewer: Let's conclude this file by something like this:
```
In the following sections we will look at a concrete example on how to build a confidential, cross-chain DAO-voting dApp from scratch using the Oasis Privacy Layer!
```

By using [a Solidity library][sapphire-contracts]
that integrates [Sapphire] into your existing and future Web3 applications,
developers on any supported network can seamlessly add confidential state and
selective disclosures to their dApps when using contract a deployed on Sapphire
without leaving their existing networks.

For more information about OPL and to catch the latest news, please visit the
[official OPL page].

![Oasis Privacy Layer diagram](../images/opl/privacy-layer-diagram.png)

The user submits a transaction on the Home network to a contract which uses
`postMessage` to notify the SGN that it should approve the cross-chain message.
The Executor waits, when the SGN approves the message the Executor submits a
transaction to the target contract on Sapphire.

The Home Contract pays the SGN to watch and approve the message, but the
Executor needs to be run by somebody willing to pay for the gas to submit
transactions to the destination chain.

[sapphire-contracts]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts
[Sapphire]: https://oasisprotocol.org/sapphire
[official OPL page]: https://oasisprotocol.org/opl

## Quickstart

> A of pair contracts are linked bidirectionally 1-1 to each other across chains,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A pair of contracts are linked bidirectionally 1-1 to each other across chains,
```

with one end on Sapphire and the other on a supported EVM-compatible chain (the
Home Network). They can post and receive messages to & from each other using the
message-passing bridge, but must register endpoints to define which messages
they handle from each other.

> Start by adding the [`@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts`] NPM package to your Hardhat or Truffle project so you can import `OPL.sol`:

Reviewer: Wrap to 80 chars.

```shell
pnpm add @oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts
```

[`@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts`]: http://npmjs.com/package/@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts

Then define the two contracts, starting with a contract on Sapphire which runs
inside the confidential enclave and can be called via the `secretExample`
handler. Use the constructor to provide the Sapphire contract with the location

> (address and chain) of the contract on the Home network::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(address and chain) of the contract on the Home network:
```

        registerEndpoint("secretExample", on_example);
    }
    function on_example(bytes calldata _args) internal returns (Result) {
        (uint256 a, bool b) = abi.decode(args, (uint256, bool));
        // TODO: do confidential things here
        return Result.Success;
    }
}
```

Then on the other chain, define your contract which can be called via
`triggerExample` to send a message to the contract on Sapphire using the
`postMessage` interface.

```solidity
import {Host, Result} from "@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts/contracts/OPL.sol";

contract HomeContract is Host {
    constructor(address otherEnd) Host(otherEnd) {
    }
    function triggerExample (uint256 a, bool b) external payable {
        postMessage("secretExample", abi.encode(a, b));
    }
}
```

After a few minutes the bridge will detect and then the executor will invoke the
`SapphireContract.on_example` method.

## Monitoring

The Celer IM Scan API can be used to retrieve status and message details by
providing the globally unique transaction ID from the chain which originated the
message.

    https://api.celerscan.com/scan/searchByTxHash?tx=0x...

> For details of the response format, see the [Query IM Tx Status] page of the Celer Inter-Chain Message (IM) documentation. Using this API lets you to check if messages have been delivered.

Reviewer: Wrap to 80 chars.

| Polygon | 137 | 0x89 | polygon |
| Sapphire | 23294 | 0x5afe | sapphire |
| Syscoin | 57 | 0x39 | syscoin |
| Polygon zkEVM | 1101 | 0x44d | polygon-zkevm |
| Optimism | 10 | 0xa | optimism |
| zkSync Era | 324 | 0x144 | zksync-era |

### Testnets

| Name | Int ID | Hex ID | autoswitch name |
| ---- | ------ | ------ | --------------- |
| Arbitrum Testnet | 421611 | 0x66eeb | arbitrum-testnet |
| Avalanche C-Chain Fuji Testnet | 43113 | 0xa869 | avalanche-fuji |
| BSC Testnet | 97 | 0x61 | bsc-testnet |
| ConsenSys zkEVM Testnet | 59140 | 0xe704 | zkevm-testnet |
| Dexalot Testnet | 432201 | 0x69849 | dexalot-testnet |
| Fantom Testnet | 4002 | 0xfa2 | fantom-testnet |
| Filecoin Hyperspace Testnet | 3141 | 0xc45 | filecoin-testnet |
| FNCY Testnet | 923018 | 0xe158a | fncy-testnet |
| Godwoken Testnet | 71401 | 0x116e9 | godwoken-testnet |
| Goerli Testnet | 5 | 0x5 | goerli |
| Polygon Mumbai Testnet | 80001 | 0x13881 | polygon-mumbai |
| Polygon zkEVM Testnet | 1442 | 0x5a2 | zkevm-testnet |
| Sapphire Testnet | 23295 | 0x5aff | sapphire-testnet |
| Scroll Alpha Testnet | 534353 | 0x82751 | scroll-testnet |
| Shibuya Testnet | 81 | 0x51 | shibuya-testnet |

> In the following sections we will look at a concrete example on how to build a confidential, cross-chain DAO-voting dApp from scratch using the Oasis Privacy Layer!

Reviewer: Wrap to 80 chars ;)

that integrate [Sapphire](../sapphire/README.mdx) into your existing and future
Web3 applications, introducing confidentiality.

> Application developers on [any supported network](https://im-docs.celer.network/developer/contract-addresses-and-rpc-info) can add confidential state

Reviewer 2: Good edit/amendment.

> Application developers on [any supported network](https://im-docs.celer.network/developer/contract-addresses-and-rpc-info) can add confidential state

Reviewer 3: We should instead include a list of supported networks in our own documentation to avoid tying this too much to the underlying bridge that is currently in use.

Reviewer 2: ➕

Author: I have added a list (condensed) which enumerates the mainnets & testnets. If this needs expanding into a table it will need to be shifted down the page as it will take up significant vertical space. This should be OK for now so people can Ctrl+F to see if their network is supported.

and selective disclosures to their applications through the usage of a smart
contract deployed on OPL without leaving their existing networks.

For more information about OPL and to catch the latest news, please visit the
official [page](https://oasisprotocol.org/opl).

![Oasis Privacy Layer diagram](../images/opl/privacy-layer-diagram.png)

## Quickstart

A pair of contracts are linked bidirectionally to each other across chains, with one end on Sapphire and the other on a supported EVM compatible chain (the Home Network). They can post and receive messages to & from each other using the message-passing bridge, but must register endpoints to define which messages they handle.

> Start by adding the `sapphire-contracts` package to your project so you can import `OPL.sol`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start by adding the [`sapphire-contracts`](http://npmjs.com/package/@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts) package to your project so you can import `OPL.sol`:
```

    pnpm add @oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts

> Then define the two contracts, starting with a contract on Sapphire which runs inside the confidential enclave and can be called via the `secretExample` handler. It is provided with the address of the other contract and the network it exists on via the constructor:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then define the two contracts, starting with a contract on Sapphire which runs inside the confidential enclave and can be called via the `secretExample` handler. Use the constructor to provide the Sapphire contract with the address of the other contract network:
```

> Then define the two contracts, starting with a contract on Sapphire which runs inside the confidential enclave and can be called via the `secretExample` handler. Use the constructor to provide the Sapphire contract with the address of the other contract network:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then define the two contracts, starting with a contract on Sapphire which runs inside the confidential enclave and can be called via the `secretExample` handler. Use the constructor to provide the Sapphire contract with the location (address and chain) of the contract on the other network:
```

that integrate [Sapphire](../sapphire/README.mdx) into your existing and future
Web3 applications, introducing confidentiality.

Application developers on any supported network can add confidential state
and selective disclosures to their applications through the usage of a smart
contract deployed on OPL without leaving their existing networks.

For more information about OPL and to catch the latest news, please visit the
official [page](https://oasisprotocol.org/opl).

![Oasis Privacy Layer diagram](../images/opl/privacy-layer-diagram.png)

## Supported Networks

### Mainnets

>  * Ethereum (1), BNB Chain (56), Polygon (137), Fantom (250), Avalanche (43114), Arbitrum One (42161), Moonriver (1285), Optimism (10), Aurora (1313161554), Syscoin (57), Astar (592), Ape (16350), Arbitrum Nova (42170), Milkomeda C1 (2001), zkSync Era (324), Filecoin (314), Polygon zkEVM (1101), Oasis Sapphire (23294)

Reviewer: How does this relate to Autoswitch-able networks here https://deploy-preview-477--trusting-archimedes-14c863.netlify.app/dapp/opl/enclave#autoswitch ?

Anyway, I would write it as a list and/or at least sort it lexicographically.

Author: Eh, I made it lexicographic order, but it would be easier to keep it in the order displayed on the Celer IM documentation, so if they add anything new we can easily see the difference.

### Testnets

>  * Goerli Testnet (5), BSC Testnet (97), Fantom Testnet (4002), Arbitrum Testnet (421611), Polygon Mumbai Testnet (80001), Avalanche C-Chain Fuji Testnet (43113), Dexalot Testnet (432201), Godwoken Testnet (71401), Shibuya Testnet (81), ConsenSys zkEVM Testnet (59140), Filecoin Hyperspace Testnet (3141), Polygon zkEVM Testnet (1442), Scroll Alpha Testnet (534353), FNCY Testnet (923018)

Reviewer: Oasis Sapphire Testnet (23295) ?

## Quickstart

> A pair of contracts are linked bidirectionally to each other across chains, with one end on Sapphire and the other on a supported EVM compatible chain (the Home Network). They can post and receive messages to & from each other using the message-passing bridge, but must register endpoints to define which messages they handle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A pair of contracts are linked bidirectionally to each other across chains, with one end on Sapphire and the other on a supported EVM compatible chain (the *Home* Network). They can post and receive messages to & from each other using the message-passing bridge, but must register endpoints to define which messages they handle.
```

Start by adding the [`sapphire-contracts`](http://npmjs.com/package/@oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts) package to your project so you can import `OPL.sol`:

    pnpm add @oasisprotocol/sapphire-contracts

> Then define the two contracts, starting with a contract on Sapphire which runs inside the confidential enclave and can be called via the `secretExample` handler. Use the constructor to provide the Sapphire contract with the location (address and chain) of the contract on the other network::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then define the two contracts, starting with a contract on Sapphire which runs inside the confidential enclave and can be called via the `secretExample` handler. Use the constructor to provide the Sapphire contract with the location (address and chain) of the contract on the home network:
```
